[[Shaping New Zealand's Identity]]
# Sir Edmund Hillary
Edmund Percival Hillary was born in Auckland on 20 July 1919, the son of Percival and Gertrude Hillary (née Clark). His mother was a teacher; his father published a Dargaville newspaper, the _North Auckland Times_. Ed had an older sister, June, and a younger brother, Rex. The family moved to South Auckland in 1920 when Percy, who had served at Gallipoli during the First World War, was allocated land near Tuakau. Percy used returned servicemen’s assistance to train as a bee-keeper, and he also established a weekly newspaper, the Tuakau District News.

In 1948 Hillary made his first ascent of Mt Cook. Soon afterwards he took part in an epic five-day journey across the main divide, helping carry an injured climber to safety on the West Coast. In 1949 he accompanied his parents to England to attend his sister June’s wedding, and he found time to climb the 4158-metre-high Jungfrau in the Swiss Alps. In 1951 he took part in a New Zealand expedition to the Garhwal Himalaya, which climbed five peaks over 6000 metres high. The reward was two places in Eric Shipton’s British Everest Reconnaissance Expedition. When Ed and Earle Riddiford proved their worth, they were joined by George Lowe on the 1952 British Cho Oyu Expedition.

Through the 1960s and 1970s Ed Hillary’s life followed a familiar pattern of international travel, lecture tours and fund-raising for Sherpa projects, interspersed with expeditions in the Himalayas, Pacific, Antarctica and New Zealand. Sadly, there was also wrenching personal loss. On 31 March 1975, his wife, Louise, and youngest daughter, Belinda, were en route to Phaphlu, where Ed was helping build a hospital, when their small plane crashed on take-off at Kathmandu. Their deaths were a shattering blow.

In 1987 Ed Hillary was among the first 20 people selected as members of the Order of New Zealand (ONZ), this country’s highest honor. In 1995 he was appointed to Britain’s oldest and highest order of chivalry, being made Knight Companion of the Most Noble Order of the Garter (KG). This order, founded in 1348, is limited to 26 living people (including the Queen and the Prince of Wales). Hillary's appointment was unique as he was the first non-Briton to be appointed KG for other than viceregal or political achievements.