[[⚡ Energy]]
# [[⚡ Energy]] Forms
### Wind [[⚡ Energy]]
Wind [[⚡ Energy]] is stored in lead batteries.
Wind [[⚡ Energy]] can be [[Transferred]] into [[⚡ Energy]] by using wind turbines and as the motor spins it generates the wind [[⚡ Energy]]. Wind [[⚡ Energy]] can be [[Transferred]] using wind turbines and as the motor spins it generates the kinetic [[⚡ Energy]] from the spinning motion.

### Geothermal [[⚡ Energy]]
Geothermal [[⚡ Energy]] is stored in hot water below ground level.
At geothermal Plant sites, wells are drilled about 2 miles deep below ground level and hot water is pumped to the surface. When the hot water reaches the surface, the pressure is then dropped, which then causes the water to evaporate into steam. That generated steam will then spin a turbine which is connected to a generator that will produce the kinetic [[⚡ Energy]] from its spinning motion.
### Solar [[⚡ Energy]] / [[💡 Light]] [[⚡ Energy]]
The most common type of [[⚡ Energy]] storage for solar/[[💡 Light]] [[⚡ Energy]] is inside of the power grid. However, sometimes the [[⚡ Energy]] is also stored in electrochemical storages.
Solar panels convert the sunlight into electrical [[⚡ Energy]].
### Kinetic [[⚡ Energy]]
Kinetic [[⚡ Energy]] is stored as potential [[⚡ Energy]].
Kinetic [[⚡ Energy]] is the [[⚡ Energy]] generated by the motion of a living thing or object.
### [[Thermal Energy]]
Thermal [[⚡ Energy]] can be generated by any heat sources such as the sun or a heater.
### Sound [[⚡ Energy]]
 Sound [[⚡ Energy]] is produced from the vibrations of an object. The sound will travel out as waves in all directions.
 Is not stored in any useful way as it is usually a waste product or by-product.
### Electrical [[⚡ Energy]]
Electrical [[⚡ Energy]] is produced when turbines are spun using other [[⚡ Energy]] types such as wind. The generators will convert the motion of the turbines into electricity.
### Gravitational potential [[⚡ Energy]]
Gravitational [[⚡ Energy]] is the [[⚡ Energy]] that is stored in an object due to it being high up above a [[Solid]].
### Elastic potential [[⚡ Energy]]
Elastic potential [[⚡ Energy]] is [[⚡ Energy]] that is stored as the result of applying a force to an object that has an elastic property.
### Nuclear potential [[⚡ Energy]]
Nuclear potential [[⚡ Energy]] is [[⚡ Energy]] that stores protons and neutrons.
### Magnetic potential [[⚡ Energy]]
Magnetic potential [[⚡ Energy]] stores the position of the object in the magnetic field.
### Chemical potential [[⚡ Energy]]
Chemical potential [[⚡ Energy]] is the [[⚡ Energy]] that is stored in the chemical bonds of a substance.

#important 