[[Slavery and the US Civil Rights Movement]]
[[Martin Luther King]]
[[Malcom X]]
# Comparing [[Martin Luther King]] Jr. and Malcolm X
The Civil Rights Leaders contributed significantly to the movement, and their cause to further the progress of achieving equality for the African Americans and other races. The peaceful protests allowed for more participation from the public, one could either donate, or take charge and join the movement that aroused most of the population. This major event in history saw the rise of many great leaders, but most noticeable of all where two, polar opposite African Americans: [[Martin Luther King]] Jr. and Malcolm Little ([[Malcom X]]). [[Martin Luther King]] had contributed more, compared to what [[Malcom X]] did, however this does not go to show that [[Malcom X]] did little, it was that [[Martin Luther King]] had did more, exceedingly more. [[Malcom X]]'s contributions were less significant as a Civil Rights leader due to his actions impacted only the African Americans. However, Martin L. King's contributions were more significant as a Civil Rights leader as his actions had impacted both the Whites and the African Americans. This essay will examine their ideology, their methods and, as well as their achievement and success and conclude that [[Martin Luther King]] Jr's contributions where more significant due to his approach to solving the problem at hand.

[[Martin Luther King]] Jr. contributions were significant to the American Civil Rights as it affected both the African Americans and the Whites. His peaceful approaches could be seen in many different forms: such as the Montgomery Bus Boycott that occurred in December 1955 to yep December 1956. This event was a protest that violated segregation in bus in Montgomery. This was regarded as the first large-scale United States movement against segregation, and it helped Dr. King to rise to a power position, cementing himself as a prominent leader in the civil rights movement. This event had majority of the bus riders, over 90% of them had joined the cause. However, at 9:15 when he was addressing a large crowd, his house was bombed. Upon reaching the house, he had to speak with an angry mob, and he pleaded for nonviolence. On the 19th of November the U.S. Supreme Court declares that Montgomery and Alabama bus segregation laws were demolished, allowing freedom for the African Americans. The evidence shows that [[Martin Luther King]]'s prominent ideology is focused on nonviolence. The nonviolence is demonstrated through the movement, where nobody would get physically injured – a form of non-violence. Disregarding the Jim Crow Laws, the African Americans had disregarded the segregation on buses, suggesting that they would not physically fight the Americans to show their stance. Furthermore, when King's house was blown up, King shows how desperate he is for a nonviolent, peaceful, and diplomatic approach to solving this issue. Instead of choosing violence when he had every right to be, he chose the peaceful and most effective path to success. Further evidence includes the March on Washington. The March on Washington had included over 250,000 participates, with people observing that 70-80% of the marchers were African Americans, hence, 20-30% where white. Furthermore, this was one of the largest demonstrations to have been ever organised in [[America]] at the time. The demonstration as a means of peaceful protest to gain the correct rights, such as: freedom and jobs. [[Martin Luther King]] had also made the historical speech that day, "[[I Have a Dream]]". This had inspired many to begin their journey, either passively or actively help to further the progress of gaining what the Africans had always deserved but had been stripped of: freedom. On the other hand, [[Malcom X]]'s contributions were significant to the Civil Rights Movement as it influenced more African American but did not impact the whites. Evidence for this is when he had joined the Nation of the Islam's and had learned to adopt a new mindset. He wanted to completely segregate both the African Americans and the Whites, but they had equal rights. He had proposed that African Americans would return to Africa, or that they should get their own country, just for the African Americans. Furthermore, he also preached that to empower black Americans and teaching them to proud of their skin color. He gave them sense of pride and dignity and changed the way they thought about themselves. He, and the Nation of Islam had believed in Black superiority. In one of his speeches named: "By Any Means Necessary", he talks about the idea, the process of being respect as an African American. The speech had outlined two important things: the first was to form an organization that was fully consisted of African Americans, who were willing to stand up against the White ruling. He had also outlined that they should act and take them with whatever it takes. He says, "We declare our right on this earth to be a man, to be a human being, to be respected as a human being, to be given the rights of a human being in this society, on this earth, in this day, which we intend to bring into existence by any means necessary." This suggests that they made to do whatever it took, even if it meant death for them. He had hinted that they should take violent actions if it ever came to it. This explains why Malcolm X's contributions were less significant in comparison to [[Martin Luther King]]. One would prefer not to join his cause as it would have the very extremist actions taken to contributed to the cause. This implied why he is less popular, as not many would want to take the risk of dying for a cause that would have little success, and since its methods of contribution were very limited – either take part in the violence, or don’t. In the speech, he says "by any means necessary", suggesting that they would have to fight until last breath, take unwanted actions, and do immoral things. One would find the course set out for them if they joined X's cause would be to irrational, and only for the most dedicated and devoted people who had no fear. Further evidence includes that of his two speeches he made after, named "The Ballot or the Bullet" of 1964, and the "Prospects for Freedom" of 1965. X sells his ideology. He wants the public to believe that the Blacks were more superior than the whites. He says, "therefore I say it's the ballot or the bullet. It's liberty or it's death" from the Ballot or the Bullet. Malcolm X simply puts his ideas laid out in a simple format. This suggests that this Malcolm X's ideology is simplistic, yet dangerous. It was either to take actions and risk death, or not. It was either one would achieve liberty or die fighting for it". In Judgment, [[Malcom X]]'s contributions were significant as they had impacted more of the African American Society. On the other hand, [[Martin Luther King]] had made contributions that were more significant as they had achieved more supporters and allowed him to achieve many great feats in convincing the Federal Government in changing the laws.

Another point [[Martin Luther King]] Jr. had made that contributed to the American Civil Rights Movement was significant through his variety of methods. His methods of gathering and organizing events. During the Montgomery Bus Boycott, he had made the task at hand very simple – to defy the segregation laws imposed against the African Americans in Montgomery. His early actions allowed him to rise as a prominent leader in the boycott. Black had told the Montgomery Improvement Association that "the strong man is the man who will not hit back, who can stand up for his rights and yet not hit back". Furthermore, he allows most of his organizations such as the March on Washington to be easy to access, easy to contribute, and easy to support. The evidence explains why [[Martin Luther King]]'s methods had worked, as they had been able to organize and events with people. For example, during the Montgomery Bus Boycott, he had been clear on his task, allowing for more people to join, and allowing for the people who had joined have a simple goal in their mind. It made 90% of the bus ridership to become boycotted, proving the success of this simple task. Furthermore, he had moved himself to become a more prominent leader in the civil rights campaign due to his early actions during the boycott. He had made himself likable due to the words he said to the Improvement Association. Another example of this is his meetings with different religious figures, leading activists, and renowned political leaders during his time as the Southern Christian Leadership Conference president. Adding on, on his trip to India had allowed him to meet the family members and followers of Gandhi – a leader in India's Independence Movement contrary to the British Rule and was known for his use of peaceful protests. Adding on, the visit to Gandhi's followers had made him popular, as he had been able to "adopt" his peaceful mindset. This is significant as the Americans could see the outcomes of peaceful protesting, and wished to see change in [[America]], therefore linking Martin L. King to success in change in [[America]]. Lastly, the meetings with influential figures suggested that Martin L. [[Martin Luther King]] had influence over many different fields of interest, meaning he was both popular and powerful. [[Malcom X]], on the other hand, was less significant as his violent methods was less appealing. Evidence includes how he had opted for armed self-defense and repudiated the message of integration as servile. On the 27th of April 1962, a noisy disagreement led to an argument in public lead to armed police to enter the Los Angeles Temple and murder the unarmed secretary. As soon as [[Malcom X|Malcom]] heard of this news, he went to the funeral where he said that the police had murdered an "innocent unarmed Black men in cold [[Blood]]" and urged for actions to be taken against then, for it could happen again – despite Elijah Muhammad warning him not to take arms and retaliate. Another prime example is when John F. Kennedy had been assassinated, and [[Malcom X|Malcom]] was ordered to not make a comment on his death. However, [[Malcom X|Malcom]] still did it anyways, and responded to a question that had described the immoral deeds that the United States of [[America]] had done as "a case of chickens coming home to roost" at a Nation of Islam Rally in New York. Three days later, Elijah Muhammad had silenced [[Malcom X|Malcom]], preventing him from talk or teach the press for 90 days. The evidence explains why [[Malcom X]] was less popular. During the murder of the secretary of the Los Angeles Temple, he had immediately thought to violent actions. Upon attending the funeral, he had accused all the White's of murder, just because of one incident. This was one incident that [[Malcom X|Malcom]] had based his actions on, and it wasn't enough to blame the majority based on the minority. Furthermore, [[Malcom X|Malcom]] is shown as someone who based their ideas off their emotions a lot, and past experiences, allowing them to control him, as demonstrated after the assassination of John F. Kennedy. Another piece of evidence is when he leaves for a five-week tour in Africa and his pilgrimage to Mecca. There, he witnesses "pilgrims of all colors from all parts of this earth displaying a spirit of unity and brotherhood like I've never seen before", yet he still wants to continue with the violent tactics to bring change for the African Americans against the USA. The evidence suggests that [[Malcom X]] had seen different races working peacefully without trouble, yet he still believes that violent methods were the only way for change to occur in [[America]], lowering his high profile with the public. In judgment, [[Malcom X]]'s impact was significant through the methods he used having a tendency towards violence. Despite this, [[Martin Luther King]] was more significant due to his pleasing approach and superb organization allow for more people to join his various movements.

[[Martin Luther King]]'s contributions were significant to the American Civil Rights Movement for his successes influenced the paths of progress for the allowance of change for the African Americans. Evidence as achievements include the many prizes and changes, he had managed to attain. From the Montgomery Bus Boycott, it was announced in late 1956 that segregation on buses in Montgomery and Alabama was unconstitutional, and it was Dr. King's first success as a leader in the Civil Rights Movement. Furthermore, another success that had bestowed itself upon King was the resultant of the [[Civil Rights Act of 1964]] through the March on Washington. There had been over 250,000 participates where 20-30% of them were White. Lastly, the Selma March had yielded results. The evidence shows that King had a lot of success during his different campaigns. The passing that segregation on busses in Montgomery and Alabama is unconstitutional. This suggests that he was the first to bring major change for African Americans without the help of Nation Association for the Advancement of Colored People ([[NAACP]]) – a major achievement. Furthermore, the March on Washington had helped pass the Voting Act of 1964, which described removed barriers to black enfranchisement in the South, banning poll taxes, literacy tests, and other measures that effectively prevented African Americans from voting. This allowed more African Americans to decide who was president in a democratic country. During the "[[I Have a Dream]] speech", [[Martin Luther King]] proclaims, "Free at last, free at last, thank god almighty, we are free at last". In 1965, Martin L. King had taken charge to drive Black Voters to register Black Voters in Selma, Alabama. The initial march was from Selma to the state capitol building in Montgomery. However, they were met with protest, and they had over fifty people hospitalized as a result. But this did not hold [[Martin Luther King]], and he had Black and White supporters, [[Martin Luther King]] had set out across the Edmund Pettus Bridge but again was met with a barricade of state troopers. Martin L. King met the people with caution, and later retreated. This sparked an uproar across the country with the Federal Government taking notice which resulted in the passing of the [[Voting Rights Act of 1965]]. The Voting Act of 1965 outlawed the literacy tests as a prerequisite to voting. The quote promises that everyone would be certain the unchallengeable rights of life freedom, and the pursuit of pleasure. This turns out to become true, meaning his promise was a success A prize [[Martin Luther King]] had was the noble peace prize, where he was awarded it in 1964. However, [[Malcom X]]'s contributions were significant to the American Civil Rights Movement for his achievements did not affect the people much. Evidence includes how he had founded the Muhammad Speaks, the Nation of Islam official newspaper. He had founded it in 1957 and was one of the most widely read newspaper ever produced by an African American. He had used the newspaper to publicize his organization and their views, which meant that they had spread their ideology. Furthermore, he was invited to speak for debates from radio stations (Los Angeles, New York, and Washington). He also spoke for television programs such as the "Open Mind", " The Mike Wallace News Program", and spoke in universities such as Harvard Law School, Howard University, and Colombia University. Adding on, [[Malcom X]] was one of the most sought after as his public speaking was unrivaled. This explains why his achievements were less significant. The production of his newspaper suggests that [[Malcom X]] had a lot to use to spread his ideology. This achievement made him more known across [[America]] and spread the word about fixing and changing the laws that surround segregation and racial discrimination. Furthermore, he as a debater, he had shown up too many different lives, and shown then what he wanted [[America]] to become. Since he was in TV series, he had been able to reach over 3 million people in [[America]]. However, he was able to talk to the most prestigious at the different universities. Furthermore, the debates through radio would have reached over 30 million ears across [[America]]. Further evidence includes the mosque he formed called " Muslim Mosque, Inc". The mosque was founded on March 12, 1964, after he had gone for his 5-week travel through Africa to learn about Muslim. In November 1965, he had written his autobiography and published it. The book had reached many young people and therefore influenced them. However, the evidence does not support the progression of the African American Society, therefore the evidence is insignificant. The Muslim Mosque was another way to spread his ideology through religious practices and was also a religious turning point for him. The autobiography did not directly influence the Civil Rights Movement, but instead influenced young people. In judgment, [[Malcom X]]'s contributions were significant as his contributions helped spread his ideology towards new people in [[America]], when [[Martin Luther King]] had achievements

In conclusion, both men contributed significantly to further the progress of achieving equality for the African Americans and other races. However, [[Malcom X]]'s contributions were limited since his ideology, method, and successes did not incorporate many of the Americans at the time. In contrast, [[Martin Luther King]] had contributions that were more significant as he had been able to model and reshape his core beliefs to include the American population.
# Bibliography
_Bibliography (In alphabetical order)_
1.  — . "Stanford | The [[Martin Luther King]], Jr. Research and Education Institute". — . [https://kinginstitute.stanford.edu/king-resources/major-king-events-chronology-1929-1968](https://kinginstitute.stanford.edu/king-resources/major-king-events-chronology-1929-1968). Accessed: 12.08, 14.08, 15.08, 20.08, 21.08, 22.08.
2. — . "PBS". — . [https://kinginstitute.stanford.edu/king-resources/major-king-events-chronology-1929-1968](https://kinginstitute.stanford.edu/king-resources/major-king-events-chronology-1929-1968). Accessed: 12.08, 14.08, 15.08, 20.08, 21.08, 22.08.
3. — . "PBS". — . [https://www.pbs.org/wgbh/americanexperience/features/malcolmx-and-civil-rights-movement/](https://www.pbs.org/wgbh/americanexperience/features/malcolmx-and-civil-rights-movement/). Accessed: 12.08, 14.08, 15.08, 20.08, 21.08, 22.08.
4. — . "Newsome". — . [https://newsone.com/3903093/malcolm-x-most-iconic-speeches/](https://newsone.com/3903093/malcolm-x-most-iconic-speeches/). Accessed: 12.08, 14.08, 15.08, 20.08, 21.08, 22.08.
5. — . "Time". [https://time.com/5101740/martin-luther-king-peaceful-protests-lessons/](https://time.com/5101740/martin-luther-king-peaceful-protests-lessons/). Accessed: 12.08, 14.08, 15.08, 20.08, 21.08, 22.08.
6. — . "Malcolm X". — . [https://www.malcolmx.com/achievements/](https://www.malcolmx.com/achievements/). Accessed: 12.08, 14.08, 15.08, 20.08, 21.08, 22.08.
7. The Editors of Encyclopaedia. "Britannica: [[Martin Luther King]], Jr.’s Achievements". 21 Oct. 2020, [https://www.britannica.com/summary/Martin-Luther-King-Jr-s-Achievements](https://www.britannica.com/summary/Martin-Luther-King-Jr-s-Achievements). Accessed: 12.08, 14.08, 15.08, 20.08, 21.08, 22.08.
8. History.com Editors. "History". 2010. [https://www.history.com/topics/black-history/montgomery-bus-boycott](https://www.history.com/topics/black-history/montgomery-bus-boycott). 12.08, 14.08, 15.08, 20.08, 21.08, 22.08.
9. History.com Editors. "History". 2009. [https://www.history.com/topics/black-history/march-on-washington](https://www.history.com/topics/black-history/march-on-washington). 12.08, 14.08, 15.08, 20.08, 21.08, 22.08.
10. The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica. "Britannica". 2008. [https://www.britannica.com/event/March-on-Washington/additional-info#history](https://www.britannica.com/event/March-on-Washington/additional-info#history). 12.08, 14.08, 15.08, 20.08, 21.08, 22.08.